# Machine Learning - Project 2 

## *Autoencoder for blood flow mathematical modeling in a bifurcated artery with a stenosis context*

## General information 

The repository contains the code for Machine Learning course 2021 (CS-433) ML4Science project 2 at EPFL. Our project is based on the paper [1] J. Bonnemain, M. Zeller, L. Pegolotti, S. Deparis, and L. Liaudet, “Deep Neural Network to Accurately Predict Left Ventricular Systolic Function Under Mechanical Assistance,” Front. Cardiovasc. Med., vol. 8, no. October, pp. 1–9, 2021, doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2021.752088.

### Team members
The project is accomplished by the team `TheVipers` with members:

- Camille Frayssinhes: [@camillefrayssinhes](https://github.com/camillefrayssinhes)
- Assia Ouanaya: [@assiaoua](https://github.com/assiaoua)
- Theau Vannier: [@theauv](https://github.com/theauv)

### Data
The data consists of 4 files: 
- u1.csv: which represents the x coordinate of the blood speed in the artery
- u2.csv: which represents the y coordinate of the blood speed in the artery
- p.csv: which represents the blood pressure in the artery
- params.csv: which represents the stenosis parameters
They have been generated by MatLab by running multiple simulations of the mathematical model 
modeliser mathématiquement l’écoulement sanguin à l’aide de PDE dépendante de 2-3 paramètres physique
simuler l’écoulement par un code d’éléments fini ou similaire
générer beaucoup de solutions avec une grande nombre de paramètres différents. (Les 2-3, pris de façon aléatoire)

### How to run the code
The project has been developed and tested with `python3.8`.
The required library for running the models and training is `numpy1.20.1`.
The library for visualization is `matplotlib3.3.4`.

### How to reproduce the obtained results

The final results used to predict the test datasets are generated by running the function implemented in ... by using the command ...
And the final results are saved in: ...

***
## Project architecture

### Helper functions

`helpers.py`: loading CSV training and testing data, and creating CSV submission files.

### Processing data 

`preprocessing.py`: preprocessing training and test data for model prediction.


### Selecting Model

`crossvalidation.py`: using cross-validation to test the accuracy of different models and searching for the best parameters(lambda, degree etc.) to obtain the best test accuracies.

`plot.py`: visualizing the training and test accuracy for different parameters, comparing the accuracy of different methods.

### Notebook

`main.ipynb`: data exploration and preprocessing. Tuning the best parameters and predicting the accuracy of all the methods through cross validation. Analysis and visualisation of the accuracy with different choices of parameters.



### Report

`documents/report.pdf`: a 4-pages report of the project.



